The Lacrosse Community is a FAMILY! We love this game. Both playing and supporting it any way we can.  This wonderful game. THANK YOU to EACH person in life that helped shape HIS Path - that lead him to his dream. Coaches, Teammates, Cheering Parents, Friends, Opponents, Teachers, Classmates, Bros, Family, Schools, Club Mates, and so on. Well Done Falcons! This was NOT your last game Seniors! Now you NEED to prepare for tomorrow. My wife is a nurse and unless you have a hot tub at home one of the best ways to help your muscles recover after two tough days of being on the field is an EPSON SALT BATH! No substitutes. SO - no Epson Salts (which has Magnesium in it which your muscles will LOVE) then just a long hot bath. Hydrate, protein (EGGS or Chicken), and rest. Don't forget Coach Walter's suggestion to look at the video of Carmel's game vs RLS. You WILL WIN Tomorrow Falcons! It's TIME to prepare mentally and physically. Get a good nights rest and read my April 30 post below to refresh yourself on what to eat/drink. DEFENSE - Don't just stop the player tomorrow - stop the ball! "Sticks Up!" becomes "Stop the Pass!" Yell it to each other. You WILL have more stripped balls tomorrow than any prior game! Keep your stick in his face and make him pass it left or right - AWAY from Aaron - but never towards our goal or THROUGH YOU! OFFENSE – KEEP MOVING! When you see Ryan, Nick, Kevin, Andy or ??? pressing hard to get inside, don't just watch! Move! If you can, put a pick in place to help either the attacker or each other to get open. It's what Carmel did to beat them. Our attacker will draw 2-4 defenders so one of you WILL be open, IF you move! You WILL play harder than RLS; You WILL win more ground balls; You WILL play every second of the game as if it were the last 10 seconds being counted down (you KNOW a 6-1 lead can vanish in minutes so NEVER stop playing); You WILL remember and be remembered for this game; You WILL walk tall, exhausted and proudly off the field tomorrow; YOU WILL FALCONS – IF you HAVE and BELIEVE in Your Own WILL! Nothing else matters – Except Beating RLS! If you do NOT believe this will happen on Wednesday, don’t even dress out for the game! If you think we can win in less than 48 minutes, don’t even come to school that day! It will take EVERY Falcon BELIEVING that they can handle their individual responsibility. Each man doing his job is like each gear in a machine, designed to do one function but when linked with other gears makes the entire machine capable of doing MUCH MUCH More! Scottie SHUT DOWN Negri last year and he can do it again – Negri’s right arm will feel a 170 pound cast is wrapped around it! CoJo will feel like he’s overheating from wearing a sweatshirt named CEDDY! Jack Margolis was taught the offensive game by Ryan who now gets to take him to school again – where Jack will NEVER SCORE! Captain, can you stop this Sophomore wannabe!? Take those three gears away from RLS and their machine can’t run. The rest of you must step up and OWN the man you are responsible for so they can’t try to be their ‘replacement gears’ – IF you THINK you can - watch the game from the parent’s side of the field! There’s no TIME to THINK! It is TIME for players who KNOW they can! IT is TIME – to BELIEVE! We WILL shoot more than 15 times in this game! Cam is ready to dominate face-offs again, with Nick by his side to mix it up, as POSSESSION will be ours! We’ll have 15 shots by halftime if not by the end of the first quarter! Seniors – this is the 9th time, and possibly the last, you will ever face RLS – are you ready to finally beat them! We lost 3-2 last year on our turf when they put Ceddy in the hospital. We are a better team this year and they have never been more beatable. It is time! Step Up Falcons! Mighty Falcons - and I mean that with all sincerity gentlemen for you are MIGHTY - Believe IT! You OUTPLAYED your opponent and the stats show that. Somedays though, The Universe simply has other plans for you and rather than get angry, just accept it and continue to do what you do best - PLAY HARD LACROSSE! We had 3 pipe shots in the first half and two in the second! If ONE of those 5 'CLOSE SHOTS' goes in, we win 10-9. Lady Luck was not on our sideline. You outshot PCS 46 to 20. We were almost even on face-offs. You only had 10 dropped passes and you owned PCS on ground ball control. Cedric blasted PCS with 8 Takeaways followed by Cam with 3 and Ryan, Calvin, and Scottie with 2 each. Ceddy led us in ground balls with 7, Ryan with 6, Scottie and Will with 5, Nick with 4, Theaker with 3 and Calvin & Cam with 2. We had 2 goals each from Jack, Ryan and Scottie followed by 1 goal apiece from Nick, Kevin and Ceddy. Assists go to Andrew and Jack, Ryan, Nick, and Cedy. These stats clearly SHOW that we ARE getting better with each game. We are moving UP at just the right time to peak! Keep up the hard work Falcons! You will WASTE todays experience against PCS if you FAIL to LEARN! That would be TRUE FAILURE! The beauty of field team sports is how it mirrors life, yet the valuable lessons that can be learned on the field do NOT have to come at the expense of someone’s life or economic collapse, merely another team scoring more goals than you did. I can take EACH lesson below and relate it to ‘real world’ business/life experiences but to save SOME SPACE, I won’t here. The lessons: Know your opposition & NEVER take him for granted! PCS is 4-4 and scored more goals against Carmel than we did so they CAN play good lacrosse! They had an OFF first half with blown covers and bad passes, which some of you may have thought – ‘this is how they always play’. If we had gone on to beat them 12-2 by doubling down on their faults from the 1st half, we would have had an easy victory against a GOOD team having a really bad day. Victory IS SWEET gentlemen - but you know how TOO MUCH SUGAR can taste. While bitter is the taste we had today, how RICH and fulfilling would the win have felt knowing how HARD you had to fight to get it. Play your game, not theirs! As their level of play weakened we eased up on our intensity and played loose. It is hard to crank your energy/gameplan/focus/attitude back UP when your momentum in taking you DOWN. They know their game and once you are playing it, they’ll usually beat you with their experience. Be PRESENT – do NOT dwell on the past goal they just scored so you forget to play NOW. We preach ‘the score is 0-0’ to always remind you to FOCUS on the NOW and what you will do. When you start feeling DOWN, you are thinking/living in the PAST; if you are anxious (“we might lose this game”) you are living in the future but if you are at PEACE with yourself and BELIEVE in what you are going to do NOW, “I WILL strip this ball” “I CAN disrupt this pass”, then you are HERE and PRESENT and those actions have a better chance of happening. Where was your mind during the 3rd quarter with each goal PCS made? If they can do it – so can you! Any team can be the victor on any given day! Take advantage of MOMENTUM while you have it for it is a POWERFUL force and even down 6 goals, you too can come back and out-score an opponent 9 to 3 in one half to win. Almost every coach knows how powerful Momentum can be. How many games have you watched on TV and seen a coach call a time out to ‘stop the bleeding’ and turn down the opponents momentum. NEVER give your opponent FUEL to beat you with! Don’t hang your head. Bicker at your team mates. Celebrate too openly ‘in their face’. Yell at the ref. Play ‘cheap bad lacrosse’. LOWER YOUR LEVEL OF PLAY and focus, as if to say, ‘we’ve already beaten you and can now take you for granted’. The SPECIFIC DETAILS MATTER. Today was a GREAT game where EVERY detail can be relooked by each of you. Each possession was critical in a one goal game so your CONTROL was key (I’m NOT talking about being beaten by a good defender or about your being ‘perfect’ which we do NOT want, but about those items you COULD CONTROL and possibly didn’t) Thoughts of “IF” - I had won that one ground ball; I had protected the ball better on that one breakaway so it wouldn’t be stripped; I had shot lower on the goalie; I had made that one better pass to…; I had caught that one pass from …; I had checked my equipment…; etc. Not ‘If I had run faster’ or ‘played harder’ as those are thoughts about your heart in the game and I truly believe your heart and effort were there today – just not your FOCUS on the details for the FULL 48 minutes (plus just over 2 minutes of over time)! Play EACH BALL, EACH PASS, EACH PLAY - FOCUSED! It takes ONE PERSON TO START A FOREST FIRE!! Only one! That fire can be one that DESTROYS you and your team as it spreads among you OR it can be one that catches everyone else on FIRE and the team turns up the heat together. Which will YOU choose as the fire’s purpose? We set out with 3 goals this season and 1 has almost slipped away – our hope of having a better than .500 season. We have 6 losses and 2 wins (with the last two losses by just ONE goal. With 3 games left, we need to win them all and then sweep 3 games through the tournament to finish 8-6. You saw today – anything is possible! Will you believe!? In yourself, your teammates, your coaches, YORK! You have 10 days to prepare for the last two weeks of this season. Will you spend it making excuses about how we got to 2-6 or focus on how you can work NOW to prepare for an amazing end of season run! Will today’s loss be a fire that destroys you and leaves you feeling like failures or a spark to light a very large and dry mound of kindle that is ready to blaze to success. How will your personal season end? Seniors – “This will be the last time” - for what? Your choice. Lead us!!! That was a game you ALL should be PROUD of - Especially you Seniors. In what may be your last game ever against PG and their seniors, many whom are friends of yours and have played along-side of you, You set an STRONG MEMORABLE example for your teammates to follow and for PG to remember the Class of 2014 by. A win would have been sweet but a good fight WAS had and a game that will be certainly be remembered by the seniors from both teams. Right from the beginning, ALL of you played York Lacrosse - Full Speed ALL GAME! I did NOT here you bickering at one another when a goal was scored against us. You regrouped and got ready to defend again and defend you did. We held off 11 minutes of penalty time and a 14-5 Face Off differential to keep this just a one goal game! That is AMAZING play Falcons!! And had the penalties been called equally on both sides, I’m confident it would have been a different game. We KNOW Ceddy did not utter anything to draw the 3 minute unreleasable and Scottie did NOT hit Michael Hardenstein in the helmet to draw his 2 minute unreleasable (Michael plays Tribe LAX with Scottie and later in the game told him “No one hit me in the head”) while Ryan was tripped a FEW times and definitely was hit in the head on his shot – yet no flags. Please know that a complaint will be filed by one of the School Trustees who was present and feels this type of unfair refereeing needs to be corrected. You continue to do your great job ON THE FIELD and we’ll work OFF the Field to make each game a better experience. INDIVIDUAL STAT Hi-Lites: Will leads with 4 goals and 1 assist; Andrews was 3 & 2; Nick was 1 & 1 and Cameron had a goal. Logan had a SWEET assist! Scottie 7 Ground Balls (GBs) and 2 Strips along with Ceddy 6 GBs and 4 Strips lead the Defense. GB war was won with help from 3 GBs each from Will, Andrew, Ryan and Aaron. Your team Dropped Passes was still down at 15 and over ½ of those were ‘simple drops’ that were quickly recovered by targeted Falcon players. Rest well this weekend Falcons and know your game is ramping UP, while some of those who have been riding a bit TOO high on their past success are starting to Slide. It’s Falcon Time! Happy Easter! The KEY on this goal is he went LOW on their goalie who charges out with his Stick UP. He couldn't get it low enough, fast enough to stop the shot. AWESOME Photo! Next Friday, FAKE high and go low when you are in close. We WILL Seize The Day! IMPROVEMENT & EFFORT – what EVERY Coach hopes to see with each new game and at Friday nights’ game versus The Breakers, You Falcons DELIVERED! We were NOT perfect – we need better slides/COMMUNICATION on Defense!; make sure you HAVE the ground ball before you keep running (use two hands to pick it up!); and fight CLEANER for ground balls when you are behind your opponent (we had TOO many ‘push from behind’ calls against us and over 3 minutes of penalties that occurred during ground ball battles). IMPROVEMENTS: 15 shots vs RLS; 49 vs Christopher (CM) and 49 vs PG! 24 Dropped Passes vs RLS; 27 vs CM and 9 vs PG! 39 Ground Balls Won vs PG 33! Middies great transitions in HUSTLING back to defend! Attackers disrupting the Clears and stealing a number of balls (DON’T Shoot TOO quick when one-on-one vs Goalie and FAKE first). A LOT more movement by everyone, especially during attacks. EFFORT - When Coach Walter called time out with 13 seconds left, the PG coach looked at me at the table with a look of ‘Really?!’. I just smiled as I knew this man forgot the reason York was on the field and that was to PLAY – ALL 48 minutes! “The game is not over” was probably something he wouldn’t have understood. You went on to WIN the fourth quarter 6-5 with :02 on the clock with Jacks putt between the goalies legs that took the sweet taste of victory away from PG. They scored more but sure as hell did not BEAT YORK! They come to Our House next Friday – I’m confident you’ll be ready for them! A well fought battle by ALL today Falcons! Very proud of the way you kept you composure when your opponents were losing theirs. Remember the saying - "Never argue with an idiot! He will drag you down to his level and beat you with his experience!" Your stat lines look a LOT better! There were a LOT of strips/takeaways as we played FIERCE Defense. No one had 5 but tied for 4 each were Marcos, Mike R, Philip, Scottie, Cedric, and John Y! The only thing still BITING us is the dropped passes. 27 of those! Against better teams, that alone would probably cost us the game. Let's get those passes down and two good days of HARD practice before we head over to PG on Firday night! Stand Tall Falcons! Senior Falcons - As graduation rapidly approaches you will find yourself thinking/saying, "This is the last time....". As you count down the last remaining games you have this season, you will meet opponent after opponent for the LAST TIME. How hard do you plan to play? What LEGACY do you want to leave behind? You start this week against Christopher as you will only play them ONCE this year (unless you match up in the end of year tournament BUT you can't count on that). Leave an impression on Christopher and each team you meet for the FINAL time. Have them leave the field thinking, "I'm so glad all those seniors will be gone next year!" As I've told you many times, there are 48 minutes in each game so play ALL 48 minutes!! In that same mindset, there are a set number of games left so PLAY EVERY GAME LIKE IT'S YOUR LAST! In many ways, it IS your last game - against that opponent! Soar...Shoot...Score...Win!! How did you feel during the 4th quarter on Friday? What was going through your mind? Were you still PLAYING THE GAME!! Or, did you FEEL beaten? After the game how did you ACT as you shook hands with your opponent? Did you look them in the eye, with a smile on your face, firmly grab their hand & say, “GREAT Game!”, “Well Done!”, “Nice Job TODAY!”. Did you let them know that you were still standing! Or did you avoid their eyes, weakly offer a limp wrist, and mumble “good game”. Were you PROUD of the way you had played right up until the final whistle!! Or, did you ACT beaten!? Your Opponent may have scored more goals and been declared the winner of THAT GAME, but only you can allow yourself to FEEL BEATEN! They may have WON - but they did NOT BEAT US!! No team will EVER BEAT US!! No team WILL EVER TAKE THE FIGHT OUT OF US!! You shouldn’t care if the other team is up by 20 goals with a minute left on the clock, there is still time to play and let them know that you are NOT BEATEN. They can take away our “W” but they will never take away our FIGHT!! We NEVER QUIT! NEVER! It doesn’t feel good to lose. But it feels worse to feel beaten! Hopeless! Unfocused! Lost! “When will this end?” “I just want this to be over.” “Pull me out coach.” If these thoughts EVER enter your head, they are a poison trying to distract you. It’s what the other team wants to do and you hope you can do to your opponents. Kill those thoughts in yourself and refocus on THE PRESENT, not the past minute or 30 minutes. NOT THE SCORE! STAY IN THE GAME and you will NEVER feel beaten! Rocky Balboa looked like hamburger meat after taking a beating yet was still standing and asking “Is that all you got?”! In Braveheart, Mel Gibson screamed ‘you can take away our lives, but you can never take our FREEDOM!’ Both men showed tremendous resilience by letting everyone know their spirit could not be broken!! Your spirit IS YOURS! It’s a very powerful force that ONLY YOU CAN ALLOW TO BE BROKEN! You are a Falcon – one of the fiercest birds in the world. Have you ever seen a Falcon fight before? The more they are injured the harder they fight until they are completely exhausted! I KNOW that type of fight exists in each one of you! April starts a new path for York – I CHALLENGE YOU to prepare harder than you ever have - both at practice and away from York! Starting with your next opponent, YOU WILL play until 2 seconds after the final whistle because you are so focused on playing all 48 minutes of a Lacrosse Game that you don’t want it to END! You WANT to win that final battle! You WANT to end the game with possession; scoop that last ground ball; make that last second shot or save; intercept that pass; make that poke check or strip. Just because the time ran out does NOT mean you are done. You are NEVER DONE! You want to PLAY and NO ONE will EVER take that passion or fighting feeling away from you! York Falcons will NEVER be Beaten! That speaks VOLUMES about your character, individually and as a team! You played LACROSSE the way the rules say it is to be played! Let that feeling keep you warm inside and start to build a larger fire - to show the other teams we will face that THIS IS HOW YOU PLAY THIS GAME! Do NOT Dishonor it! Soar High Falcons! This IS The Year of The Falcon! It is Your Destiny! BELIEVE IT! We have the largest senior lineup of lacrosse players in school history. We have three new dynamic coaches! This is the year - York finally has a winning season (we have had two years, including last year, where we had a .500 record); we finally beat RLS; we win the end of season tournament! It all CAN happen with one simple beginning – your belief in yourself and then each other. It is a very special year to be a York Falcon Lacrosse Player.
You HAVE to believe to make it a reality! No more excuses – “Our school has less students.” “Our players are smaller.” “We don’t get to practice as much.” “Our academic load is tougher.” Any feeling or thought you may have that tries to ‘justify’ a loss or a LACK OF EFFORT is the same as a deadly germ that infects first you and then the whole team. The bottom line is HEART. I KNOW and BELIEVE IN ALL OF YOU that Your Hearts and Pride are bigger than our opponents – we WANT IT MORE and it means More to us!
This season starts with Your Individual Motto being – “I CAN….”. NEVER start a sentence with “I Can’t….” or “I Can TRY….” KNOW in your mind and heart that you CAN. Envision what you know you want to happen and it has a better chance of happening! How many times have you seen a player go to score and thought, “He’s going to score!” and then it happened! OR, you’ve seen a player look like he’s in trouble and though “He’s going to lose the ball” and then the ball is knocked lose! Your mind is a powerful tool – USE IT to your advantage! If you think it = it has a stronger chance of happening!
If I ask both a seasoned attack man and defenseman “When you two match-up, who will win THAT battle?”, they both should answer confidently, without hesitation, “I Will!” The attack KNOWS he CAN get a clean shot off and score while the defenseman KNOWS he CAN stop the clean shot. If an opponent looks you in the eye and sees a lack of confidence in your eyes, he has already beaten you, without even taking his first step. Someone WILL get beaten in THAT encounter – they can’t both win - BUT the belief from both players should not weaken. They will face one another again – maybe minutes later – and both need to still believe, “I CAN….”
The “I CAN…” starts with each individual battle. I CAN WIN this face off; this ground ball; this sprint; this juke. I CAN EXECUTE this pick; this steal; this strip; this clear; this pass; this catch. I CAN stick to this player like glue; block this shot; keep my stick up. I CAN keep moving!
“WE CAN….” will be Your Team Motto! It’s a belief in each other and as a team what WE CAN accomplish! Each of you has the capacity to be the ignition switch we need to turn up the volume for the whole team!! When you see any one Falcon do something that as a team, it didn’t feel we could previously do, our team belief suddenly changes from ‘We CAN’T….’ to “We CAN….”
We CAN win a face off and score within 10 seconds of the whistle blowing! We have been down by 7 and scored 5 goals in under 2 minutes – WE CAN! We CAN feel Proud of How We Played the Game, regardless of ANY final score. We CAN Play a full 60 minutes, including winning that last ground ball with just seconds left in the game. WE CAN! This IS Your Year! BELIEVE IT and It WILL Happen. Do NOT let others take away what is YOURS. Pride & A Love for this Wonderful Game and your Fellow players. Believe in Yourself and DO WHAT YOU CAN DO and the rest will naturally take care of itself!! Go Falcons! the time rapidly approaches to embark on your next Journey - York Boys Lacrosse is destined for the best season they've ever had and to ensure this happens AND your impact on the team is felt for years to come, we need MORE players to join your ranks!! Spread the word!! This Friday, January 24th, the new head coach will be at York at Lunchtime for a little 'clinic' where I hope to see all you returning players bringing a NEW member (along with any extra LAX gear you may have) to this 'meet and greet the new coach', which will be held on the lower field at lunchtime. We cannot make an official announcement during Break so use any other means you have to bring some new blood into your clan. The encouragement of the Senior players will be KEY to preserving this incredible sport at York - it's your turn to lead so LEAD ON! HYDRATE, eat and sleep well! Bring your own energy food/drink/GU or whatever you KNOW works for you! Be the better prepared team! Get ready for PCS and York LAX History – on their small field which leads to VERY FAST breakaway goals, especially off of face-offs. You win a face-off heading for their goal and you can almost immediately shoot. It’s what both teams did during our 12-9 loss. If you recall, there were 5 goals between the two teams in under 2 minutes. One team scores and then the other wins the face-off and scores right back. PCS is NOT the same team we played as they won 7 of their last 8 games including wins over RLS and then PG lost to PCS on Friday 7-6. I’ve spoken to some Tribe PG players and their feedback, along with Coach Mario’s comments after yesterdays’ game – PCS scores on cut plays – fast breaks inside. Stay on your man and do NOT allow him the clean pass, especially to the middle near the goal. Man to Man defense works best especially to put a man on #5 and have him LIVE THERE. I was surprised by Mario’s comment, “I’ve never seen such an impact player where one guy was involved in so much, especially scoring plays. You have to shut him down.” Penalties HAVE to be avoided or you might as well give up a goal since their fast pass/score offense will find the open man and make that work for them. Be TOUGH and CLEAN. Our goals have to come QUICK as they play a very tight zone defense – against PG they did. The last time we played we ran up some fast goals in the second half with the kind of scoring we did yesterday vs Palma – the quick ACCURATE passes with everyone MOVING until the open quick shot was found. A real beautiful thing to watch! PCS has NOT seen OUR TEAM – we didn’t have Brendan, Andy or Ceddy on our last trip. They are in for a big surprise! You’ve waited all season for Monday and on that day you CAN make York Lacrosse History. We have NEVER had a winning season. We’ve had two .500 seasons, the last one in 2009. Last year you went 8-10 overall. You are now 8-7 overall. One more win and regardless of what happens the rest of this week, you WILL have a winning season! Lastly – you HAVE scored 3 goals in under 30 seconds….the game is NEVER OVER so play 48 minutes, right from the beginning, and VICTORY is YOURS! Seniors – Do NOT let this be your last game!! Go Falcons! Congratulations Falcon Warriors – Friday you played like a TEAM. I RARELY saw someone NOT moving when the ball was on your end of the field. You took advantage of your YORK strengths – scoring quick with fast ACCURATE passes through a confused and unsettled defense; mixing the shots up with players they aren’t used to seeing shoot; using man coverage on Defense to slow down their REAL shooters; SWARMING on ground balls which you won by over a 2-1 margin by battling together in those scrums; and taking a lot of shots at goal. The HEAVY York Wheel has started down the mountain and there is no stopping it now! Continue to play like this and you will overwhelm and frustrate your opponents. It is your time Falcons – GRAB IT! Falcon Warriors - Remember that word, WARRIOR - it was something you embraced right before your first game against CARMEL - it means, "A person who has shown great vigor (strength or force), courage and aggressiveness and is energetically engaged in an activity, cause or conflict." As Friday approaches and you prepare for your last league game of the year, you have a CHOICE - which is what life is really all about. What you CHOOSE to do and how you CHOOSE to look at things. How much effort, time and focus will you CHOOSE to give - for yourself, your teammates and your school!? Will you CHOOSE to feel like WARRIORS and ALLOW yourselves to BE BIGGER, QUICKER, TOUGHER than your opponents. Will you CHOOSE to let your opponent rest and attack you IF he sees a weakness or BURY him in a SWARM of energy where he SURRENDERS the ball to escape. CHOOSE to BELIEVE in your SPEED, your ABILITIES and the PASSION in each other! It's time - Start your engines and get the momentum started NOW that will propel you into the MTAL tournament next week. End your regular season with a powerful game and send the message - "Are YOU ready for The Falcons!" I look forward to watching you play tomorrow and hearing the frustrations that are sure to emanate from the Palma Bench! Go York PRIDE!! Remember...at the end of the day, if the final score didn't go in your favor, if you had played FIRST AND FOREMOST for yourself, you'll still walk away feeling good! You got to play the game you love - and hopefully had fun while you did it! On ANY given day, ANY team can win! Of those that do win, they usually have one key factor in common – they have a common desire – A REASON TO PLAY FOR!! If they believe in what they are playing FOR, they’ll give it all their HEART. SO – the team with the most HEART will ALWAYS walk away PROUD of their efforts and many times, the final score will be in their favor also! What are you playing for!?!? Or maybe, WHO are you playing for!?!? Your first answer should be yourself and your love of the game. That should always be your first reason and the foundation of why you step on the field – because you love to play and want to do the best you can. After that, WHO or WHAT are you playing for? The Aptos game felt SO GOOD because you all could feel that you were playing for each other and your teammates were playing for you. There was a whole different ‘connected’ feeling to that game which made everyone feel closer, even though we lost. Tomorrow I hope you all will consider playing for the Seniors on your team who have never seen a lacrosse victory over RLS. There is a good chance that this could be their last game ever against RLS and you all are definitely strong and skilled enough to beat them – so go do it right from the first whistle. How sweet would it be for York to beat RLS in lacrosse on two consecutive days!! WHAT ARE YOU PLAYING FOR!! – For Yourselves! For the Seniors! For York!! Go Falcons – I Believe in Each and Every One of YOU – Do YOU!?? “Upon these fields of friendly strife are born the seeds that upon other fields on other days will bear the fruits of victory.” – Douglas MacArthur. I mentioned this quote before but it was MUCH more appropriate today in a contest that could have gotten out of hand but it didn’t because you kept your heads. Those same heads that left today’s field were held higher than your opponents because YOU KNOW you played honorably and have nothing to be ashamed of! I have NEVER been more proud of you boys than I was today! You CAN look at yourself in the mirror, and your opponent in the eye, and with all honesty and sincerity tell him “Good Game” – NOT because of what HE did, but because of what YOU, and your teammates did! That is the REAL VICTORY! In the face of defeat you kept it together and played for yourselves and each other - especially #11, an incredible example for all of us to emulate.
The quote talks of FRIENDLY fields – which ALL athletic fields should be. How one conducts themselves on that field will show a character that is the individual SEED which each of you has. In the future (‘on other days’), where ever life takes you and whatever occupation you end up doing, your seed (which is your CHARACTER) will meet up facing another ‘seed’ and on that ‘other field’, which may be a boardroom meeting, a bank, a courtroom or anywhere two people have to negotiate (‘do battle’), the two of you will remember today’s contest and what REALLY happened on the field – NOT the score. You’ll remember the cheap shots, the temper, the faked injury, the foul language, the provoking and other signs of WEAK Character and realize you DO NOT want to do business with someone like that or someone associated with a team like that (‘The Apple Doesn’t Fall Far From the Tree”) – Your Victory is Avoiding the troubles that come from dealing with others who have weak backbones. If you are competing against that other individual, his character flaws WILL follow him because guilt is a heavy load to bear and with time it wears one down. You have no weight so you will stand taller, look more confident, and give off a warmer, more sincere air about yourself. You WILL be Victorious!
NEVER PLAY DOWN to your opponents’ level, no matter how much you are provoked. Keep your heads about you and in the end you WILL prevail – like you did in the fourth quarter today where you outshot (8-3); out muscled (won every face-off); and outscored (2-1) your ever weakening opponent. It was my honor to be on your sideline today and I commend all of you for the courage and discipline you displayed – Go Falcon Pride!